1.How the APPLICATION works

TWO completely separate, independent programs that happen to work together: 
They're not TWO halves of one thing — they're two different pieces of software, written differently, doing different jobs, listening on 
different ports (3000 vs 8080).
FRONTEND (a website — just HTML/CSS/JS files once built) 
BACKEND (a live Node program that generates and returns a GUID on request). 

Now the actual end-to-end flow, which is the part that ties it all together — and this might be the most useful part for your broader understanding 
of "how applications work":

A user types your site's address into their browser. That request hits the ALB on port 80. The ALB checks its listener rules and forwards the request 
to one of your running frontend tasks. That frontend task hands back the built website files (HTML/CSS/JS) — nothing dynamic yet, just the raw page.

Here's the key part people often miss: the browser itself then runs that JavaScript locally, and that JavaScript makes a second, completely separate 
request — this time straight from the user's browser out to the backend's address (your ALB, port 8080, per Option A). That second request is what 
your config.js/API_URL controls. It hits the ALB again on a different listener, gets routed to a backend task, which generates the GUID and sends it 
back. The browser's JavaScript receives that response and displays it on the page.

So the backend isn't something the frontend server calls on your behalf — it's the user's own browser calling it directly, as a second independent 
trip. That's also exactly why CORS matters at all (remember CORS_ORIGIN from way back) — CORS is a browser security rule that only kicks in when 
JavaScript running in a browser tries to call a different origin/port than the page itself came from.

So to directly answer your original question: yes, ECS effectively "splits" into frontend and backend — not because of a security group decision, 
but because they're two genuinely separate applications from the start, and every downstream infrastructure piece (services, target groups, security 
groups, listeners) is just modeling that same separation


2.In ECS, 
a "service" means "keep some number of copies of this one specific container running, all the time, replacing them if they crash." 
Because frontend and backend are different programs, they have to be two separate services — you can't merge "run my website" and "run my 
API server" into a single service, since ECS needs to know which container image, which port, and how many copies to manage for each 
independently (this also matters for scaling — under load, you might need way more backend copies than frontend copies, or vice versa).

3.ONE SECURITY GROUP FOR BACKEND + ONE SECURITY GROUP FOR FRONTEND
VS/OR SECURITY GROUP FOR ECS TASKS

Once you accept they're separate services, everything downstream naturally splits too: each service needs its own target group 
(the ALB's way of knowing "which pool of running tasks should traffic for this purpose go to"), and it makes sense for each to have its 
own security group, since they listen on different ports and arguably should have different access rules. You could technically use one 
shared "ECS security group" covering both ports, and it would still work — but splitting them is more precise, and follows a general 
security principle called "least privilege": each thing should only be able to do/access exactly what it needs, nothing more.

ECS TASK DEFINITION
The task definition is a separate, ECS-specific blueprint that says "when you run that image, use this much CPU, this much 
memory, this port, these IAM permissions, and send logs here." It doesn't contain your code at all — it just references 
the image (aws_ecr_repository.backend.repository_url) and describes how ECS should run it.



API 
API stands for Application Programming Interface
in the context of a website, it usually means a set of URLs a server exposes specifically for exchanging raw data 
(like your GUID, as JSON), rather than serving actual visual webpages.

Your backend is an API — its whole job is "receive a request, return a small piece of data," not render any HTML or UI. 
Contrast that with your frontend, which serves the actual visual page a human looks at. That's the core reason they're 
two separate services in the first place — one serves pages, one serves data.


1.cidr_block        = cidrsubnet(var.vpc_cidr, 8, count.index)

That line is dynamically calculating a different IP address range for each subnet you create, so you don't have to hardcode 4+ separate 
CIDR blocks by hand.

Breaking down cidrsubnet(var.vpc_cidr, 8, count.index) — it's a built-in Terraform function that carves a smaller subnet out of a bigger 
network. It takes 3 arguments:

var.vpc_cidr → the big network range you're slicing up. Something like 10.0.0.0/16, meaning your whole VPC.

8 → how many extra bits to add to the prefix, meaning how much smaller each resulting subnet should be. Adding 8 bits to a /16 gives 
you /24 subnets (16 + 8 = 24). A /24 gives you 256 IP addresses per subnet — plenty for a project like this.

count.index → which specific slice, numbered starting at 0. This only works because this cidr_block line lives inside a resource block 
that also has count = 4 (or however many subnets you're creating) set on it. Terraform runs the resource block once per count, and each 
time, count.index is a different number: 0, 1, 2, 3...

So put together, if var.vpc_cidr = "10.0.0.0/16", this single line automatically generates:
subnet 0 → 10.0.0.0/24
subnet 1 → 10.0.1.0/24
subnet 2 → 10.0.2.0/24
subnet 3 → 10.0.3.0/24

...one unique, non-overlapping /24 block per subnet, without you writing 4 separate cidr_block = "10.0.X.0/24" lines by hand. If you ever 
change var.vpc_cidr, all the subnet ranges recalculate automatically too.

2. availability_zone = count.index == 0 ? "us-east-2a" : "us-east-2b"

walking through it step by step, with count = 2 set on this resource:

Terraform runs this subnet block twice, since count is 2. Each run gets a different count.index value: the first run, count.index = 0. 
The second run, count.index = 1.

Now apply the line to each run:

First run (index 0): count.index == 0 → is 0 == 0? Yes, true. So it takes the ? branch and assigns "us-east-2a".

Second run (index 1): count.index == 0 → is 1 == 0? No, false. So it falls through to the : branch and assigns "us-east-2b".

End result: you get exactly 2 public subnets — one in us-east-2a, one in us-east-2b. One per Availability Zone, which is exactly what you 
want for the ALB requirement we talked about earlier (needs subnets in at least 2 AZs). With count set to 2, this line is completely 
accurate and doesn't need any changes.

Why "CLOUD WATCH LOGS"

Fargate, there's no server you can SSH into to check what went wrong if a container crashes or misbehaves — no terminal access, no way to docker logs
it directly like you did locally. CloudWatch Logs is your only window into what's actually happening inside these containers once they're running in 
AWS. So it's not optional in any practical sense — without it, if your backend crashes in ECS the same way it did locally (remember the uuid ESM 
crash, or the missing COPY . . issue), you'd have zero visibility into why, and debugging would be nearly impossible.

network_mode = "awsvpc"

Under that mode, every single task gets its own private network interface (called an ENI) and its own IP address inside your VPC's subnet — behaving, 
from a networking standpoint, almost exactly like an individual EC2 instance would, even though there's no actual server you provision. Security 
groups attach directly to that per-task network interface, controlling exactly what can reach that specific task, same mechanism as it would for a 
real EC2 instance's firewall.